Here in lesson one, I wanna start
right off with the big picture of how all ten lessons in this
course are going to fit together. At the same time, I wanna give you a solid
idea of the core theme behind the course. On the first question, in most classes, the content
builds in a linear progression. For example, in math you first
learn an addition and subtraction. This in turn enables you to learn about
multiplication, and division, and so on until you reach the dreaded, or
for some like me beloved calculus. For this course however, the content isn't
quite suited to such a linear structure. Thus, while we've tried our best to
advance things in a logical order, you will see that each
individual topic we cover has multiple connections to
many of the other topics. For example, our first lesson here on
budgeting has multiple connections to our lessons on credit cards, loans,
taxes, investment and so forth. So it's kind of like a spider web of
personal finance rather than a ladder. And here's the key point, and the main reason why I'm bothering to
share this course architecture with you. As you go sequentially through
the lessons, when something comes up that references an earlier lesson, I encourage
you to go back to that topical lecture and refresh your memory if you need to. Now, here's another key point. Despite the somewhat distributed
nature of the topics, there is really only one
main theme to this course. Personal finance isn't like that bio 101
test that you're pretty sure you can wing and still maybe get a decent grade. Having a smart plan for
your money is very important, and learning how to develop such a smart
plan at this stage of your life lays the groundwork for the rest of
your personal and professional life. Let me illustrate this point
with my very own modern fable, reminiscent of the ant and
the grasshopper involving 2 30 something executives at a medium sized company
that develops office buildings. Neither of these executives,
we'll call them Juan and Juanita, are in the 1% of the wealthy,
but both make pretty decent money. So each month, they have a surplus
of discretionary funds to allocate after they have covered their
fixed expenses like housing and insurance. On one hand,
Juanita has a very smart financial plan. She saves 5% of her paycheck every month,
invests wisely in the stock market, and even own a small internet
business she runs on the side. As a result,
she has multiple streams of income as well as a decent amount of capital
in her business and other investments. While she doesn't appear
to be super wealthy, she drives a ten year old Toyota Camry
with a car loan long paid off. She can support her family and
still live a reasonably comfortable life. Juan on the other hand, lives as well as
he can off the wages he gets from work, his only source of income. Part of his cash flow drain
is a big lease payment each month on a really cool red Porsche. Plus the dude loves to party,
what can I say. So what do you think happens
when a mutual friend of Juan and Juanita offer them a great opportunity
to invest in a new business venture with a high probability of success? While Juanita can take full
advantage of this opportunity, Juan is simply tapped out. Fast forward five years, and
the economy has gone into a recession. The building industry is on the ropes and
both Juan and Juanita get laid off. While Juan ends up on
the extended unemployment line, riding the bus after missing several
lease payments on his latest Porsche, Juanita simply devotes more
time to her side business and draws a little bit of cash from her
other investments when she needs to. Fast forward 20 more years, and Juanita is
off to an active retirement in Florida. Juan on the other hand, has come to
the uncomfortable conclusion that he will likely have to work well
into his supposed retirement. So what are the key points? Well, first, having a smart,
balanced plan let's us live a more comfortable life at the same time
that it prepares us for emergencies, bad economic trends, or investment
opportunities that may lie in the future. Second, planning for the unexpected
emergency, like losing your job, is as critical a part of your financial
plan as your investment portfolio. And finally, a key part of any smart financial plan
is diversifying your sources of income. While Juan was stuck in
a highly cyclical industry and paid a heavy price when a recession hit, Juanita was appropriately diversified both
job-wise and through her investments. You don't need to worry about the
specifics of diversification right now. We will talk about that
in a later lecture. For now, I just wanted to tell you this
little story to illustrate several of the key ideas of the course, and give you a small example of what
a smart financial plan might look like. [MUZIKA]