I mean everybody's got a budget. We live on a budget. We believe the government ought to live
on the same budget, live on a budget. Not change it from what, you know,
we're just gonna keep adding to the debt. >> Okay. Now let's get down to
the basics of budgeting. And like the man in the video clip says, everybody has to keep to a personal
budget, even when our government is spending money like a drunken sailor and
racking up huge deficits. You on the other hand just can't do that. So let's get a little more academic and formal now about how we want to
think about the budgeting process. Here's the basic model you
want to build everything from. Money in, money out. And in the middle we have a sector
representing our various cash reserves, savings and investing accounts. Now, here's the essence of the model. To make a good plan you have to account
for all your money flowing in and flowing out. This will affect what
you do with the money or discretionary funds you have in
the middle that you can control. So, let's start in our
model with Money In. At this point in your life, your money
in column is likely to be pretty simple. It may be your pay check from work. May be an allowance from your
parent if you're still in school. Maybe a little extra cash on the side if
you make money through a hobby, like I do. I have a part time gig as
a professional sand sculptor. Building sand castles for
things like weddings and corporate events. As for other possible money in-flows,
as you acquire capital and invest it to put that money to work,
your Money In column should expand to also include the gains from
the investments you've made. Now, how about the Money Out column? Well, the first thing that we want to do
is identify our fixed expenses each month. Those are generally the recurring expenses
that have to be the first thing we pay. As a college student, these fixed
expenses might include things like rent, groceries, utilities, a phone bill and
transportation costs. As I said,
these are the bare bones essentials, or necessities we need to continue to
survive and get to work on time. It's the money out that
is already spoken for each month as soon as it
gets into your hands. Now here's where things
really get interesting. That's because the difference
between these two money in and money out cashflow streams will be the
discretionary funds you have to work with each month to either consume for
fun or invest for a future return. In fact, it is with this
accounting reality that the fun or self-restraint begins. That is, you can either blow all that
discretionary income on fun stuff every month, or you can just spend
some of it and save the rest. So, let's assume that your
goal is to have a smart plan. Like Juanita from our fable. What do you do to start
executing that plan? Well a great first step is to open up
a savings account at your local bank or a credit union. Such a savings account will be handy for building up an emergency reserve of money
or for saving up for large purchases. Plus, savings accounts have the added
benefit that they typically earn more interest than checking accounts. And have lower fees. But, at the same time that
you open a savings account, you may want to open
a checking account as well. That's because savings accounts often
have low transaction limits per month. Mine is only allowed six transactions per
month which is only really useful for transferring and depositing funds,
not making purchases. And two tips here. First I'm a big fan of credit unions. As they tend to be friendlier places and offer slightly higher interest
rates as a rule than regular banks. In fact as a college student you may
want to see if your university has its own credit union. Second and
this is an important caution flag. Not all checking accounts are equal. That is,
some banks charge higher fees than others. More subtly, some banks brag that
they won't charge you a fee if you keep a minimum monthly balance. However, with a minimum balance, you
do wind up paying a hidden cost because you earn less interest on the balance. Or maybe no interest at all. So, before you open your brand new
savings and checking accounts, shop around to get the best rate based on
the number of checks you think you'll need to write each month. [MUSIC]