Okay. Now, that we've got the idea
of money in and money out, and some discretionary funds
each month to play with. Let's make a sample budget for
a typical month. We'll start with the inflows and
outflows, and categorize them. Then, we can look at where we can set
goals, and how to go about meeting them. So, let's say we have an income
of $2000 every month. That represents our money in. From that, we need to subtract $800 for
rent and utilities, $50 for a phone bill, $200 for
transportation, and $350 for food. After paying these fixed expenses, that leaves us with $600 of
money to work with, not a lot. Still, let's put aside maybe
$400 as spending money, and the other $200 we can save. And, from those savings,
we can make a goal, at least conceptually in our minds,
to put some away for an emergency. And, some away for a large purchase
like a nice vacation, or a new car, or something of the sort. And, here's the key point. If we spend all the discretionary money
we have every month, larger planned purchases, that new computer, or
car, become much more difficult. Plus, if you don't save, and you run
into an emergency, like a bad accident, or losing your job,
that can have big financial consequences, both in the near and longer term. Just ask Juan from our fable. Now, even though this is a pretty decent
example of a monthly budget, you, of course, need to set your own goals,
and develop your spending plans. In fact, one thing we are not going to
do in this course is to tell you how to actually use your money. That's up to you. Nor are we going to encourage
you to live like a miser either. Our view is that money
is meant to be spent. But, like so many things in life
where timing is critical, when and how you spend your discretionary
money will largely determine how your wealth may, or may not grow over time. So, getting back to our main
budgeting task, just remember, in your budgetary accounting,
that you must start by accounting for your necessary and unavoidable costs, like
utilities and rent, maybe a car payment, and then work from there. And on that note, I think it is
also important to acknowledge that there are actually lots of discretionary
elements in what we've listed so far as necessary and unavoidable costs. For example, your rent or mortgage is
initially determined by how big or small of an apartment, or
house you rent or buy. So, if you are flexible initially,
and are willing to settle for a smaller place a little farther
away from the transit line, your fixed monthly costs for
housing will be lower. And, you will have more discretionary
funds to play or invest with. Similarly, on the food front,
sure, you gotta eat. But, maybe you can save more
money by making your own lunch. Or, cutting down on that morning
mocha that is costing you close to a 100 dollars a month. Again, you don't have to pinch pennies, but having a plan to save at least
some of you income is best practice. Let's finish up now with
a discussion of some handy tools for you to begin to acquaint yourself with. At a minimum, you can devise your
own custom excel spreadsheet to prepare your monthly budget, and that's an exercise we'd like you to
do once you finish this lecture. But, there are also some handy web
tools out there that may be useful. For example, this is a spreadsheet
from CollegeinColorado.org. It's a pretty detailed expenses list, and it allows you to download your
entries onto an Excel spreadsheet. While all of these tools may be useful,
you also have to remember the first and most important rule of budgeting. The real challenge you're gonna face is
not making up your budget to begin with, bur rather sticking to it. So remember, the foundation of a smart
plan for our money is a simple budget. From there, everything else
in the plan falls into place. Mastering this elementary concept
will help you down the road, when juggling multiple investments,
accounts, and revenue streams. And, that's what managing
your money is all about.