I wanna start out this lesson with
a bridge between our comparison of credit and debit cards and today's topic, of
building and boosting your credit score. To cross this bridge,
let's start with this hypothetical, but all too common scenario. Let's say your current credit
card debt is around $5,000. And you messed around a bit with
some late payments on your bills, so now you're stuck with a penalty
interest rate of 25%. Yes, that's right. Credit card companies can charge
rates as high as 25% or more, even when interest rates in the broader
economy are only in the single digits. How do you spell, loan shark? Now, let's further assume that
the only thing you ever do with your credit card balance is to pay
the minimum payment each month. In fact, you just take a pair of scissors,
cut your credit card in half and toss it in the trash. [SOUND] Now, fast forward seven years,
at this point you will have paid over
$5,800 in interest alone, that's way over your starting balance and
you haven't even spent a cent. In fact the amount of interest
you will pay on your credit cards is highly sensitive to the interest rate
the credit card company charges you. For example, as you can discover
at a website like creditcard.com, if you have a $5,000 balance with
a 16% annual percentage rate, and you make a payment of $125 each month, you would need 4.8 years and $2,000
in interest to pay off your balance. Okay, that observation leads
to our first key point. Simply that paying the minimum balance
on your credit card every month, rather than also paying down most or
all of your balance is a losing move. And here's a little key insight into the
mind of the average credit card issuer. When you only pay the minimum
balance that card company likes you. >> And
I can't deny the fact that you like me. Right now. >> These credit card companies really like
you, because you are forking out interest payments at obscene rates and
you never default. Good for the bank, but way bad for you. So, here's your first big tip. Pay off your credit card
balances as quickly as you can, to avoid having interest
payments erode your buying power, particularly when you're being
charge obscene interest rates. And that key tip,
brings us to our first key question. How the heck do so
many credit card customers wind up paying exorbitant
interest rates like 25% or more? >> Well, it's all about the risk the
credit card companies claim you pose with the possibility of you defaulting
on your credit card bills. Enter stage right, your own unique
credit score and credit report. Now hear this. These two metrics are the single greatest
determinant of both whether you can get credit to begin with, and
whether you'll be charged the lowest or highest interest rates. So we really need to understand
how credit reports and credit scores determine both your access
to credit and the rates you'll be charged. Now, on to part two, when your ready. [MUSIC]