In this part of the lesson, we're going to
drill down into both credit reports and credit scores, and I'll show you
in particular how credit scores are actually derived from credit reports. So let's start off with the credit report. Your credit report is a detailed
record of your credit history. And it specifically focuses on your
ability to repay any money you may borrow. So what you may ask is
in your credit report? Well first, it includes personal data
like your current and previous addresses. Your social security or
national identification number. And your employment history. Second, your credit report includes your
credit history and particularly seeks to identify the number and type of accounts
you have past due versus in good standing. Third, your latest credit report will
document past credit inquiries into your credit report. So, what's that all about? Well it's done as a means of gauging
both your borrowing activity, and your possible solvency. The big statistic here is that,
at least according to one credible source, people who have added six or
more inquiries into their reports during the past year, can be up to eight
times more likely to file for bankruptcy than those with credit
reports showing no inquiries at all. Finally, the report provides
important details of any of your accounts that may have been
turned over to a collections agency. And note that these details include
any information about lawsuits or claims on your property,
or the garnishing or taking of your wages as a result of
some type of lawsuit or other action. In other words, if you have been
late on your credit cards or run into trouble with the law for
failure to pay your debts or stuff like child support for your kids,
your credit report is going to reveal it. But such oblations are not really the most
important function of the credit report. So what is? Enter stage left, your credit score. Your credit score is hands down one of
the most important numerical measurements of you as a financial entity. And it is a number based first and foremost off a very detailed statistical
analysis of your credit report data. And depending on the credit bureau
calculating the credit score, they may use other information too. Now, here's some good stuff to know. The standard range of credit
scores is between 300 and 850. And this should be intuitive,
the higher your score, the less risk lenders will see you as having when
it comes to defaulting on your debts. So a higher credit score will mean
both lower interest rates for borrowing, and often, better loan terms. As a practical matter, most banks and
lenders consider anything above about 750 to be excellent, and scores of 800 and
above to be credit perfection. So what are the details of this score and
what does it actually measure? Well the most well known credit score and
industry standard is the FICO score. This FICO score is actually named after
its inventor, the Fair-Isaac Corporation. In fact, Fair-Isaac is the king of
credit scores in the marketplace. As for the specific function of
the FICO score, its statistical goal is to predict the likelihood of
a borrower going 90 days past due or worse, in the 24 months after
the score has been calculated. Now, besides Fair-Isaac,
there are three other main credit bureaus that produce FICO-like scores
using their own proprietary models. These bureaus include Equifax,
Experian, and Transunion. As to why your credit score may differ
across these bureaus, most of that is due to the slightly different weighted schemes
each use in their proprietary models. Now, here's a key point. In America, each citizen is entitled
to one free credit report each year from each of the big three credit bureaus. And here's a key tip. To get your free credit report, you can
go to the website AnnualCreditReport.com. This is a website run collectively by
Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion. And note here that if you also
want to get your credit score, along with your credit report,
there will be a small fee, which is one of the obvious reasons these
credit bureaus sponsor that website. As for how credit reports are laid out,
they will vary considerably, because the different credit bureaus
do indeed have different practices. That said,
there are significant commonalities. For example,
most reports will include a short summary of any problem areas
they notice on your case. A sample tag line here might read, proportion of balances compared
to the credit limit too high. In addition to such caution flags,
your credit report will also contains specific payment
data from the lines of credit you have. We'll also put red flags on things
like any months where you paid late or not enough. Now, here's a really important head's up. The credit report companies
are far from perfect, and they will sometimes make errors. Unfortunately, it will be your
responsibility to correct those errors. Typically, this means filing
some type of protest form, requesting an investigation and
asking that the error be corrected. Here, bureaus have 45 days to look into
the matter and address the mistake. Now here's still another
important heads-up. You are entitled to a free credit report within 60 days after
a poor credit decision. Such a decision might
include being denied credit. Alternatively, the lender might
be trying to saddle you with an above-market interest rate based
on your alleged higher credit risk. In such cases,
lenders can't just blow you off. Instead these lenders, or
creditors are legally required to tell you exactly why they are offering
you substandard terms. In this process, they must identify the specific items that
negatively affected your application. So that way when you go over your
credit report to double check it, you will know exactly what to look for. You can see then,
how your credit report and your credit score are critical
parts of your financial life. What we need to do next is to dig
more deeper into the credit score number itself. The goal here will be to show you
ways that this stage in your life to strategical build and
boost your credit score. So down the road when you wanna buy
that car or house, or borrow for a new business venture, your loan will get
approved at the lowest possible rate and with the best possible terms. Not a bad goal to strive for. So let's get on it in part three
of this lesson when you're ready. [MUSIC]