So what are the best ways to
strategically boost your credit score? These ways are no mystery as they're
routinely trumpeted by government agencies and financial entities alike. Unfortunately, however,
not enough borrowers hear these trumpets. [MUSIC] Well, let me share some of
the most important ways with you. First and foremost, you should pay your
bills on time, all your bills whether it be your credit card bill, your electricity
bill, your phone bill and so on. Of course I fully understand that
sometimes you might run late because you're low on funds. However, a lot of times, and let's be honest here, it's just plain
laziness that left those bills in a pile. Don't do that. It has a big cost. And here's a key tip, use your online
checking account to set monthly payments for regularly recurring bills. That way you won't forget to pay them. Second, and in a related vein,
if you have a nasty habit of waiting until a bill goes to a collection
agency to pay it, don't do that either. This will further lower your score and
quickly. Third, it's really important
to pay off your credit card balances as quickly as possible,
or at least keep those balances low. So don't fall into the minimum
payment trap I described in part one of this lesson. Now here's a fourth and far more subtle tip that pertains to your
credit card limits, whatever they may be. The key point here is to never max out
your debt relative to your credit limit. To put it another way, if you have a lot
of debt relative to the limit on your credit card it will have
a negative effect on your report. Fifth, and students like us
should take particular note. The credit agencies will look closely for how long you have actually
had a credit history. Here, the longer your history,
the higher your score. Unless, of course, you have a long
history of being a deadbeat. But the fact that history matters
offers up this key point. You need to start your own credit
history as soon as possible. That's why in our last lesson, I strongly
recommended that you get both a debit and credit card, along with a checking and
savings account. Now here are a couple of final key points. Don't go on a binge applying for
new credit on multiple fronts. That will show up in the credit bureau's
algorithms and ding your credit score. Note also that the agencies will
closely scrutinize the kinds of credit you have and how many different
lines of credit you draw upon. Now that does not mean you can't
have a separate business and personal credit card,
that certainly won't count against you. But scoring agencies will mark you
way down if you load up on too many personal credit cards. Here the typical rule is that one
personal credit card is enough. So don't go getting a lot of cards
to maybe avoid the credit card limits being imposed on you. That's a con game that will quickly
be revealed in your credit report to your detriment. Now, I wanna finish up this lesson with
a quick word about how a low credit score can specifically impact
your life in unexpected ways. For example if you have a credit score
in the low 600s or below, you won't be able to get mortgage insurance and that
may prevent you from buying a new house. Your insurance premiums may also be
higher because studies have shown a link between low credit scores and the higher
rate of filing insurance claims. Finally, more and more employers are using credit reports
as a way to screen job applicants. The rationale is that those you
are more fiscally responsible will have a tendency to be more responsible and
rational employees. So don't lose your next best job simply
because you screwed up your credit score. Now here's my parting shot. Stripped to its essence, your credit
score is a results of the habits and tendencies you have as a consumer. And therefore,
a reflection of how you behave. If you run high balances and
are bad with paying your bills on time, your score will suffer, that's on you. On the other hand,
if you have a smart plan, stick to it, and keep on top of making your payments
on time, your score will be fine and offer a firm foundation for
future prosperity. Most broadly, with a good financial plan, your credit score should
easily fall into place. This will open up doors to better
credit card and loan rates, lower insurance premiums, and maybe
even an extra edge on the job market. [MUSIC]