Okay so,
I know you're dying to know who said the only two things in life that
are certain are death and taxes. Well, it was none other than one
of Americas founding fathers, Benjamin Franklin. And he might have added that, even when
you die you are likely to get taxed, at least in some countries that
have the so-called estate tax. As for why taxes are so certain in your
life, the big reason is that every government in the world needs tax revenue
to fund the various services it provides. Everything from a military and
a justice system to roads, bridges and air traffic control. While few people really argue about the
need for at least some level of government expenditure, therefore at least some
level of taxation, there's considerable debate over how much tax revenue should
be raised and how taxes should be levied. There is also the perennial
question of who in any society should bear the greatest or
smallest burden of any tax. And whether the tax system
should be used like Robin Hood, to redistribute income
from the rich to the poor. We're not really going to get into the
politics of all this, but here's a quick overview with at least some of
the issues from an economic perspective. For starters, there are considerable
differences between the types of taxes out there and their link to actual need. For example, gasoline use taxes are used,
at least ostensibly, to raise money to build roads and freeways for
the vehicles that use that infrastructure. So that kind of tax is levied under
the so-called benefit principle, you get what you're taxed for. Second major type of use
tax is the sales tax. The big beef with sales taxes politically
is that they are regressive in nature. That is, a larger fraction of
their burden falls on the poor. And that's why in some states or
countries, necessities like groceries and prescription drugs
are exempt from sales tax. In contrast, the income tax in many nations around
the world is generally a progressive tax. With a progressive tax,
as your income rises, the percentage you are taxed
on that income rises as well. And in contrast to the benefit principle, the principle underlying progressive
taxes is that of ability to pay. Think Robin Hood here, where the rich are
taxed at a higher rate to help the poor. And yes, that's a principle that is
the focus of considerable debate. Now, in addition to these kinds of taxes,
there is one of the most important taxes local governments use,
the property tax on homeowners. At least in theory, property taxes
are supposed to be used to pay for the infrastructure and services needed
in local communities like sewer and water lines, roads and stop signs,
schools and, yes, even jails. On top of this, there are all sorts or
license costs and fees out there. For example, people often have to pay for
a license to hunt. And the rationale there is not just
to pay for the game wardens and other related services, but
also to limit the number of hunters and thereby perhaps conserve the fish or
deer or other types of game. Finally, there are so-called sin taxes
on stuff like cigarettes and alcohol. Well, the idea of such sin taxes may
be to discourage smoking or drinking. They are also great sources
of revenue because demand for so-called sinful products
is highly inelastic. Meaning that smokers and drinkers aren't
all that responsive to changes in price. Needless to say, there is a great deal of
debate among populaces around the world about the level and
burden of the taxes levied. And we are not going to
settle that debate here. One of the most important things I can
help you with however, and a key theme of this lesson, is to learn how to minimize
your tax bill without breaking the law. In fact, there are a lot of small ways to
structure your finances and investments that will let you walk away with
a smaller bill and bite from the tax man. This practice is known as tax mitigation,
or tax avoidance. And it is a very different animal
that what's called tax evasion. With tax evasion, you blatantly cheat
on your taxes to not pay as much. You might do this by
falsifying documents or hiding income or
not filing a tax return at all. But now hear this. Tax evasion is a losing game,
and if you don't believe me, just ask one of the worst criminals
in American history, Al Capone. Of all the crimes Scarface ever committed,
the only one he was every convicted for was tax evasion. And joining him in the slammer
at different points in time have been other famous celebs ranging
from Martha Stewart and Wesley Snipes, to Leona Helmsley to even baseball player,
Pete Rose. My message? Don't mess with the tax man. That said, you can mess quite
a bit with tax mitigation. This includes strategies like choosing
investments with a lower tax burden, looking for deductions that you can make,
and putting money in accounts that carry a lower tax liability, like
an Individual Retirement Account, or IRA. And even some taxes, like the property tax
are tax deductible on your income taxes, which is just one more reason why
it may be better to own than rent. Of course,
these are all pretty high level things. So let's not get carried
away with the details. The main take-away here is that
you can plan your finances and do your taxes in such a way
that will save you money. So now on to part two of this
lesson when you are ready, where we will focus on the income tax and
what you need to know. [MUSIC]