As a final piece of the income tax puzzle,
I want to start off this part of our lesson with a brief discussion
about tax accountants. At this stage of your life,
things are financially pretty simple, so preparing your taxes yourself and
looking for possible deductions is doable. This is particularly true if you
follow my advice to use some tax preparation software to assist you. That said, as your finances grow and become more complex, a tax accountant
may be able to add value to your life. One reason is that, the time you
would spend going through a very complex tax return might
be better used elsewhere. That's the opportunity cost
of doing your own return. Second, tax laws constantly change,
and tax accountants are likely better informed about such changes, and therefore
better able to minimize your tax bill. Still, at this stage in your
life I strongly recommend a hands-on approach to
filing your income taxes. Do take this task seriously. Use a tax prep software
if you can afford it. And here's another key tip. Be sure and file your tax returns early if
it looks like the government is going to owe you money back. And it's faster if you file by computer,
rather than through the mail. By filing early,
you'll get that money back sooner, rather than later, and
get it working or playing for you. Now, let's finish up with two other not so random observations
about the tax landscape. First, about 150 countries, and
all countries in the European Union, rely more on a value-added tax, rather
than an income tax for their revenues. In fact, the United States is
the only major developed country without the so-called VAT tax. With a value added tax, a tax is imposed
at each stage of production on the way for something to become a final
product sold at a retail store. And in some sense,
it's just a more complicated sales tax. Proponents of the VAT tax claim it
is more efficient than income taxes, because an income tax may discourage
people from both working and investing. Why? Because an income tax does indeed
tax both working and investing. A VAT tax on the other hand,
as a consumption tax, encourages more savings or
so the argument goes. I don't want to get any deeper into that
argument, but I thought you should at least know about one of the most important
taxes in the world outside US borders. So final point I want to make about taxes,
you may want to educate yourself on the kind of pension program
your government might run for you. In the United States, that program
is known as Social Security, and everyone who picks up a paycheck
in America contributes annually to the Social Security system, and
it's a pretty big bite of your paycheck. The important thing to understand
about Social Security is that, it is not a true pension program. What I mean by that is this. In a true pension program, the money you put into your pension is
put to work in investments for you. Upon retirement, you can then draw on that
pension based upon what you put in and what your investments earn. In contrast, the Social Security
system is a pay as you go system. That is the money you put in is,
basically, used to fund the retirement
of people already retired. To put this another way,
your contribution into Social Security is not put to work for you, but
rather used to pay for other people. I'm telling you this,
because as the American population ages, there are going to be fewer and
fewer workers like you supporting more and more retirees like Professor Navarro
when his time comes. Because of that, many experts are predicting funding
shortfalls in the Social Security system. This problem is hardly unique
to government pension programs. Europe and other Asian countries like
Japan are facing similar problems. Why am I telling you this? For one simple reason. In planning for your future, you
shouldn't count on completely living off a government pension like Social Security. Instead, you should think about saving and
investing yourself, quite possibly in vehicles like individual retirement
accounts that are tax deductible. And with that observation
this lesson's a wrap. [MUSIC]