Okay, I want to start off this lecture
with what appears to be a really simple question. Which of these three activities,
poker, roulette, and stock market investing,
represent pure gambling? Which of these three activities
represent intelligent speculation? [MUSIC] Okay, I confess. This is a bit of a trick question, because you may have been tempted
to answer both poker and roulette. In fact, of these three activities. Only roulette really is pure gambling,
while both poker and stock market investing at least
should be games of speculation. So what the heck's the difference between
gambling and speculation, and why is it so important when it comes to
stock market investing? Well, here's the deal. Gambling involves games of pure chance
that don't involve any real skill. And on the roulette tables
in the casinos of the world, the house, that is the casino owners,
always win. Why is that so? Because the house always stacks the deck,
so that the odds of you consistently winning at games like roulette
are always less than 50-50. To see what I mean,
look closely at this roulette wheel. If you bet every time on either black or
red, you will eventually lose. Why? Because those 2 green slots on the table, tip the odds in the house's favor to
a less than 50, 50 chance of winning. So if you want to gamble, do it for fun. But don't expect to make
any real money over time. Intelligent speculation is a totally
different endeavor, however. It involves trying to move
the odds in your favor. Just why is poker, unlike roulette,
a game of intelligent speculation. Well, if you are a good strategist and
know the odds better than you opponents of what cards are likely to come up,
you may not win every time, but over a series of hands,
you should win more than you lose. That's the way stock market investing and
trading should be, and the way you intelligently speculate on stocks is
to do your research and homework. Not act on impulse around some
hot stock tip from a buddy. As to how to intelligently speculate,
suppose you are thinking about buying a blue chip or highly regarded stock,
like Procter & Gamble. You can go to a website like
Yahoo Finance or Google Finance, and find a wealth of information
about the stock. To begin,
you have to find the stock symbol. Once you've got that,
you can then go to the information page. A good place to start here is by
looking at the profile of the company. Give it a careful read. I mean heck, find out what the company
your about to buy shares in actually does. Next, you might then look at the one
year chart to see how the company's been doing lately. Wow, that's a pretty
ugly sideways pattern. By sideways pattern, I mean that over the
last year, the stock has been pretty much treading water, neither going up much or
going down much. But what about a longer time frame? Let's look at the five year chart. Here we have a nice upward trend. So at least, over a longer time frame, you
could've made money on Procter & Gamble, if you had bought it
five years ago that is. Another item that is usually
pretty interesting for your research is the analysts' opinions. These opinions tell you what the experts
who follow the stock are thinking. Check this out. This is a pretty ugly
set of evaluations for Procter & Gamble, because you see a lot
of analyst downgrades on this stock. So, even though Procter & Gamble
maybe one of the bluest of blue-chip stocks in the world,
this may not be the right time to buy And now buying the stock now is a good
example of intelligent speculation. Sometimes what you don't do is
better than what you actually do. Of course, we don't have the time in this
short course to get any further into the details of just what to look for
to become an intelligent stock speculator. But the bottom line here is if you want
to make money investing in stocks, it takes time and effort,
not hot tips and dumb luck. Okay, let's move on to part two of
this lecture, when you are ready. [MUSIC]