Since we are talking about stock
market investing a good place to start might be with an explanation of
what a stock market actually is. Basically a stock market
is like a physical place like the New York Stock Exchange or it
could be a virtual place like the NASDAQ market where stocks are bought and sold. And by the way,
the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ are both located
in the United States. And they rank number one and
two in the world in terms of the value of the companies that are traded
on these exchanges. In addition, around the world, some of the most important stock exchanges
include England's London Stock Exchange, Japan's Tokyo Stock Exchange China's
Shanghai and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges, India's Bombay Stock Exchange and
Brazil's BMF Bovespa. As to actually what can be
traded on these exchanges, the first obvious answer is "Stock" in
companies, but what are stocks actually? They're more than just a piece of paper,
some bytes and bits that seem to magically
fluctuate in value. Stocks are actually tiny shares
of ownership in a company. So for example, if you want to buy shares
of an American company like Apple, its stock symbol is AAPL and
it is listed on the NASDAQ exchange. After buying some shares,
you would be a part owner of Apple itself, along with the many others who hold stock. Depending on the type of stock,
how many shares you own and whether it is traded publicly to anyone
who wants to buy some in an exchange, you can be entitled to dividends,
the opportunity to attend shareholder's meetings, and sometimes participate
in votes about company decisions. As to how you actually make money, The key
concept here is that of total return. The idea of total return on a stock is
that your gains consist of two components. The first component is the annual
dividend a stock may pay out to you as a shareholder. To that you must add any price
appreciation on the stock over the course of a year. Suppose then that you buy one share
of stock for $100 on January 1st, in the fictional United Conglomerate
Industries, stock symbol UCI. Over the course of the year,
the price increases to $105, while UCI pays you nice
little dividend of $5. So, what's your total return for the year? Well you certainly don't need
any calculus to answer that one. Your total return for
the year is simply 10%. Five bucks of price appreciation
plus five bucks of dividend divided by your original purchase price. Now here's our next important point. It's not just companies that are traded
in the stock market these days. In 1993 a new type of trading instrument
called the Exchange Traded Fund was born. The short-hand name for
these instruments is ETFs. And today, using ETFs you can trade
entire market sectors, like energy, technology, or health care using
ETFs like XLE, XLK and XLV. The advantage of trading a sector rather
than just a company within that sector is that you eliminate
what's called company risk. The idea here is that
a sector like housing or pharmaceuticals might be doing very well,
but one particular company within that
sector may fall on some bad luck. If you invest in that
particularly star-crossed company to take advantage of a favorable
sector trend, you'll be out of luck. But if you use an ETF to invest in
the sector itself, you'll do much better. The same idea behind sector ETF investing
is also behind that class of ETFs that allow you to buy the broad
market of a country rather than any of the individual
sectors or companies within that market. For example, suppose you don't want
to bother trying to pick a company or a sector, but simply want to speculate on a broad market
like the S&P 500 in the United States. This market index contains the 500
largest companies in the US with a collected value
of over $5 trillion. If you wanna buy a piece of this rock, all you need to do is invest in
the exchange traded fund SPY. The beauty of investing in a stock
market index fund like SPY is that it eliminates both company and
sector risk. As to how you actually go about buying and
selling stocks, that requires you to set
up a stock trading account. Just like stock market investing itself
you also want to do your homework here as there are many different
vendors to choose from. Here's just one top ten
review list to look over. It includes such familiar names as
E*Trade, Fidelity, and Charles Schwab. Some key parameters you wanna look at in
making your decisions include how much commission do you want to pay per trade. And more importantly for beginners,
how easy is the trading platform to use. Note here that as a general rule,
you tend to get less service, the lower commission rate per trade. So choose wisely. Now, before you take
the stock market plunge, I'm going to suggest that you spend a good
year or more learning to trade and invest using a simulated stock market game,
like Stock Check or Wall Street Survivor. There's a very simple reason for
starting with simulated trading. Most people who jump right into stock
trading with real money, lose most or all of that money. As the cynics on Wall Street say,
that's paying your tuition to the market. So hold your horses and
practice first with play money and that's what I will show you how to do
in the last module of this lesson. [MUSIC]