In this section I wanna go over
some of the basics of stock trading you may find helpful. But before I do that. I want to emphasize the importance
of learning how to trade stocks in a simulated game environment. That's what a lot of students do at the
UCI business school, and you should too. The idea behind a stock market simulator
is that you're given a fixed sum of money, like $1 million. And you are allowed to trade that
money over a fixed period of time. The cool part about
stock market simulators. Is that they rely on actual real-time
data from the stock markets themselves. So they only actual difference
between trading on a simulator. And trading on your own stock market
account, is that you are using play money. As for which stock simulator to use,
there are bunch of them out there. But it is hard to go wrong
with Wall Street Survivor. So our suggestion in this course,
is that you go ahead and set up an account at this or
a similar simulator. Yes it's free. As for stock trading itself,
here's just a few key concepts. Let's start with market
versus limit orders. With a market order,
the stock you want to buy. Is purchased at whatever price is
clearing in the market at the time you make your trade. The advantage of a market order is that
you are assured that it will be filled. But you may pay too high a price if you
happen to buy on a big momentum swing during the day. In contrast, with a limit order
you can set your price so as to not exceed a certain amount. For example, suppose you wanna
buy another share of UCI. And you think it's a good
deal at any price below $105. However, if you have to
pay a price above $105. You don't think that the reward you are
likely to earn, will be worth the risk. So with a limit order, all you need to do is set your
limit priced at $105 in this case. Of course, the down side of a limit order
is that the order may not be filled if the price remains above $105. Now, a second key concept
is that of stop losses. A key point here is that
when you buy a stock, you need to carefully manage your risk. What do I mean by that? Well of course you're buying that stock
on the speculation that it will rise. But despite all your careful research,
the stock might actually fall. And if it falls a lot, you can lose a lot
of money, and sometimes very quickly. The idea of a stop loss is
to put in a sell order. So that if your stock falls
below a certain amount. Then the stock is automatically sold. A good rule here is to never
lose more than 10% in a stock. So for example,
if you buy a share of UCI at $100, you might wanna put in
a stop loss order for $90. And here's a cool related concept,
that of the trailing stop loss. The idea here is to never
turn a winner into a loser. So for example if you buy UCI at $100 and
it goes to $110. The wise thing to do here might be to
raise your stop loss order to $100 rather than the original 90. So if UCI falls back down,
you at least didn't lose any money and therefore didn't turn
a winner into a loser. These are just some of the many
tricks of the stock market trade. That you'll need to learn to make money
on your stock market investments. While you may not have a lot of money
to invest just now in the stock market. Over time as you get better and
better jobs at higher and higher pay,
at least that's what we all hope for. You'll begin to accumulate capital
that you'll need to invest. So if you pay your tuition to
the stock market now using play money. And learn how stock trading works. You'll live a far more prosperous life. And that's what managing
your money is all about. [MUSIC]