Okay, let's start off this lesson by first making the important distinction
between savings and investment. Two terms which are often and
wrongly used interchangeably. So here's the important distinction. When your goal is simply to save money, your primary goal is to protect
that money from any loss. So when you save,
you either put your money in a vault or into very safe investment
vehicles like a money market or the government bonds of a relatively safe
country like the United States or Canada. In contrast, when you invest your money
you are willing to take on more risk. Precisely because you are trying
to gain a higher return or reward. So you might invest your money in any
number of vehicles that range from stocks and real estate, to precious
metals like gold and silver, and precious objects like fine art and
classic cars. And that leads us to the first big
concept we have to wrap our heads around. Basically, the idea of
the risk/reward ratio. As a practical matter, the more risk you
are willing to take on as an investor, the higher your reward or
return on that investment should be. That's because the ultimate risk of an
investment is that you will lose some or all of your investment
capital if things go wrong. So, for example, it's a lot riskier
to invest in corporate bonds than government bonds, so corporate bonds
usually offer a high rate of interest. Hey, if they didn't,
investors wouldn't buy them. They'd buy the safe
government bonds instead. Similarly, it's a lot riskier to invest
in brand new technology stocks than established blue chip stocks like
Proctor and Gamble and General Electric. So generally, investors expect a higher
rate of return on these riskier stocks. As for the various risks you face, when
you invest in instruments like stocks, real estate, gold or even impressionist
paintings, these risks come in many forms. For example, you might buy
a house hoping to flip it for a quick profit and wind up seeing
housing prices suddenly plunge. That's how the whole 2007 financial
crisis started, and it wasn't pretty. Or you may decide to become a gold bug. I don't recommend that, and invest your money in gold bars or any
one of a number of stock market trading instruments that allow you to essentially
bet on the price of gold going higher. However, if after you make your
gold investment, the economy goes into a downturn and the rate of inflation
falls along with the industrial demand for gold, you may suddenly find that
the $20,000 you dropped on the gold market may only be worth half that. So, the big point here,
is that whatever you invest in, it's important not just the return or
reward being offered but also the risks involved in making
that particular investment. And now hear this, if the reward or return being offered to you sounds
too good to be true, it probably is. So don't get sucked into any
fly by night investments. Whenever you might be tempted, remember
this axioms from the great philosopher, WC Fields, never give a sucker an even
break, and you can't cheat an honest man. >> Sir you impugn my honor. As my dear old grandfather Lipbock
said just before the sprung the trap, he said you can't cheat an honest man. Never give a sucker an even break or smarten up a chump
>> Okay, enough about the risk reward ratio. When you're ready, let's move on to Part 2
of the lecture to examine the concept of rate of return, a really cool financial
tool known as diversification. [MUSIC]