So how about we finish up this lesson with
a discussion of some of the reasons why you may invest. And some of the investment vehicles you
may want to consider as you move forward in life and start to accumulate more and
more savings and capital. As to why it's never too soon to think
about investing rather than mere saving. Putting your money to work for you in reasonable investments is
the best way to grow your wealth. In fact the difference between investing
and not investing is often the difference between being able to buy a new car or
a new house or retiring early and not. Just remember our fable about
the profligate grasshopper Juan. In the diligent ant Juanita. At any rate, the question becomes just what is the best way to invest
your money as you move through time. The general rule here is that
you should be willing to take on a bit more risk in your youth. But, as you approach and enter retirement, you will want to take on a lot less
risk and simply preserve capital. As to what investment
vehicles are out there, the main categories include most
obviously stocks and bonds. In addition, there are real estate
opportunities to speculate in. Along with more exotic
investments in precious objects. Like fine art and classic cars. In addition, as I alluded to earlier,
a lot of people become infatuated with the idea of investing in
precious metals like gold and silver. Not necessarily a bad idea, but an idea that nonetheless
carries considerable risk. While we will devote the entire next
lesson to stock market investing, it is worthwhile to hit some of
the highlights when it comes to some of these other investment vehicles. Let's start with bonds. Regardless of the type of bond that
you are buying, the basic idea is that you put down a sum of money and
you are promised two things in return. All of your money back when the bond
reaches its maturity and a specific interest rate paid on those funds
while the bond moves towards maturity. As per maturity dates, these could be
anything depending on the particular bond. Thirty days in the case of treasury bills
or perhaps a ten year corporate bond note. Now the thing to understand about
bonds is they are not necessarily safe despite the mythology that
has grown up around them. In fact, there's a whole class
of so-called junk bonds, which pay a far higher interest
rate than US government bonds, but they also have a much
higher risk of default. The second thing to
understand about bonds, is that you can choose between bonds where
you have to pay income tax on the interest verses tax free bonds where
the interest is exempt and by the way these tax free bonds
are typically issued by local and state governments as allowed by law. However, as a practical matter
you don't wanna be loading up on tax free bonds until you are earning
quite a bit of income to begin with. That's because everything else being
equal, tax-free bonds offer lower interest rates precisely because
taxes need not be paid on them. Now, what about real estate? Here, the first thing
you have to know is that real estate is considered to
be a very illiquid asset. What I mean by that is,
you can't just sell a house or an apartment building with
the snap of your fingers or the click of your mouse,
like you can with the share of a stock. Because that is true, it's important for you to consider more broadly the degree
of liquidity of any investment you make. If you think you might need that money
quickly, you will be better off investing in relatively more liquid assets, even if
they may offer slightly lower returns. As for our precious metals, like gold and silver, I alluded to the big problem
with this investment vehicle. It is highly sensitive to the ups and
downs of the economy and business cycle. So don't get caught up in
the hype of precious metals and if you are going to be a gold bug
at least be an intelligent one that understands the reasons why metals
like gold and silver rise and fall. It's all about the rate of inflation. The robustness of an economy, and
any heightened uncertainty in the world. Now, what about precious objects like fine
art, stamp collections and classic cars? Yes, indeed these are an alternative
investment vehicles. But guess what, unless you are an expert in
the particular field in which you invest. Don't go there. In fact, these kinds of investments
are primarily the preserve of people who already have more money
than they can count. I'm assuming that's not you. Now, the last thing I want to talk about
in this lesson is one of the great powers in economics. The power of compounding. Compounding is what happens when you
reinvest your investment earnings. That is, when you add your earnings
to your original invest principal. Technically, compound interest means
that the interest you earn each year is added to your principal. That means your balance doesn't just grow,
it grows at an increasing rate. The result is a large earnings base
upon which your earnings can continue to accumulate. To see the power of compound interest, let's bring back our stars of Lesson One,
Juan and Juanita. Back for an on course scenario. In Juan's case, he receives
an unexpected inheritance of $10,000. And at least he has the sense to invest
it, rather than blow it on a big party or vacation. This rare sensible move notwithstanding, Juan nonetheless decides to spend
the interest he earns every year. So, at a 10% interest rate, this would
allow him to blow $1,000 in extra income every year and he would still have his
$10,000 in principle some 20 years later. Juanita, on the other hand,
has a different idea. When she gets a similar $10,000
inheritance, she lets her investment ride over the next 20 years in anticipation
of having to pay college tuition for her kids. Over this period, through the power
of compound interest, her $10,000 thereby grows to $67,275. You can try out your own example and see the power of compounding
at the website moneychimp.com. It's pretty cool. At any rate, the last words of wisdom I
can offer on this subject of saving and investing Is that none of it is possible
unless you have the kind of sound budgeting plan I described in Lesson One. That's why,
as I said at the outset of this course, that everything we teach is entangled in
an interrelated web of personal finance. So get curious about your investment
options early in your life and you'll be prepared to invest once
the money starts rolling in. From that great job that college
education is going to get you. Fingers crossed. [MUSIC]