Lenders aren't necessarily your friends. We've established as much in our last
couple of lectures about credit. The fact is, lenders are in business to
make a profit, and your role as a consumer is to make sure that you get what you need
from them for the lowest possible cost. In fact,
that's what makes an efficient market. Profit maximizing businesses of course but
cautious, careful consumers like you doing their due diligence are the other key
ingredient necessary for a good market. So what about the market for one of the most important services
of financial institutions? I'm talking about loans. All kinds of loans. Home mortgages, car loans,
personal lines of credit, business loans, you're going to need to tangle with
these things throughout your life, because they're useful financial tools. In fact, by having access to
capital through the loan process, you will be empowered to make
large purchases like houses and cars without having to accumulate
unreasonable amounts of money, or liquid capital as
they call it in the biz. So it is important for
you to understand how loans work and how to incorporate them into
a smart financial plan. For starters, many loans
are structured with a down payment. This is usually some smaller
portion of the purchase price for whatever you might be buying. For example, to buy a house costing,
let's say, $500,000. You may only have to put up a $50,000 or
$100,000 dollar down payment. I say only here because
you see how hard it might be to come up with
the full half a million. But if you save diligently,
remember our budgeting tips from Lesson 1, 50 grand might be doable. As to why you have to even
bother with a down payment, in colloquial bank vernacular
it's called skin in the game. It's the amount of money, your so called equity, that you would lose
if you defaulted on the loan. And by having such, skin in the game, or equity, the lender's figure you
are less likely to default on the loan. Plus, the down payment
helps serve as proof that you have a sound financial situation. Now, the next thing you need to know, is that the schedule payments you have on
many loans Include two main components. Some repayment of the principal
to pay down the loan, and some payment of interest to cover
your ongoing borrowing costs. Just what is the principal? That's the amount you actually borrowed
to begin with from the bank or lender. As for the interest, that's what the
lender charges you on the borrowed money. Interest can be fixed the starting time
of the loan or it can be variable and adjusted to mirror the market at certain
intervals to your benefit or loss. In the home mortgage market, these two types of loans are called
fixed verses variable rate loans. More about that later, because the choice
between which to use is very important. Now there are a bunch of different
kinds of loans in the marketplace, but one main type is the so-called
amortizing loan. If you go to a site like Investopedia, amortization will be defined
something like this. The paying off of debt with a fixed
repayment schedule in regular installments over a period of time. For example, for a car loan, it will
be for a fixed period such as 3, 5, or even 7 years. Over that period, you will likely have a fixed monthly payment that remains the
same over the entire period of the loan. That's the regular installments
part of the definition. The broader point here is
that through amortization you'll pay a portion of the principle and
a portion of the interest and thereby steadily whittle down the amount
you owe until you make the last payment. As for
how the fixed payments are calculated that's done through what is
called an annuity formula. Technically an annuity, say within the context of home
mortgage maybe defined as a fixed sum payable at specified intervals over
a period in return for a single payment. In this case, the bank pays you the fixed
sum in the form of the loan upfront and over time, you pay them a fixed sum
broken up into monthly payments. To figure out what that fixed sum is, an annuity formula is used that takes
into account both the principle and the interest on that principle
that must be paid over time. You'll learn more about how that formula
actually works in other courses, such as those in accounting,
economics or finance. But for now you can see,
using this mortgage calculator. How sensitive your monthly payments
will be to the rate of interest. And here's something really interesting,
about an amortizing loan, like a home mortgage. At the beginning of the loan, most of your monthly payment is to pay-off
the interest while as the loan matures, the fraction of the principal you'll
pay down each month will grow larger. Of course, the lenders like it this way
because this type of amortization schedule keeps you more committed to
the full term of the loan. Now here's a big caution flag. There are also so called Negative
Amortization schemes that allow you to defer paying interest for a short
time at the beginning of your loan. While this type of scheme helps
you lower your initial payments. The interest you don't pay off for that
initial period gets added to your balance. Of course, in the end, you wind up
paying more money over the long run. And that observation leads
us to this key point. If you have to resort to a negative
amortization payment scheme to afford your loan payments,
you might wanna reconsider your finances. Sure you'll make the lower monthly
payments for a short time. But when your full payments kick in you
could get into trouble as you have to start paying interest and have higher
monthly payments on the principle. In fact, these types of schemes
are part of the problem that lead to the collapse of home prices
in the 2007 financial crisis because they had much higher rates of
default than traditional mortgages. Now, here's a final bit of loan
terminology we need to deal with. The idea of collateral and it's
basically the thing of value you put up to get a loan and
stand to lose if you default on the loan. Again, the idea here is that you have
less incentive to walk away from a loan if you have something of value to lose. Of course for home mortgage your collateral is the house
you actually buy with the money. Default on your loan in the home
becomes the property of the bank or the financial institution
holding the paper on that loan. In other words, you lose your collateral. Similarly, for auto loans,
the collateral is the car you buy. Default on the loan, and the repo
man may pay your driveway a visit. We'll cover mortgages and other good
stuff in part two of this lesson. Move on when you're ready. [MUSIC]