So you wanna buy a house. Unless you're related
to the Rockefellers or a whiz kid entrepreneur that means you're
probably going to need a mortgage. In fact the home mortgage is one of
the most important loans out there. It allows you to move into a house without
requiring a huge amount of capital. As noted in part one of this lesson,
Mortgage is an amortizing loan with a long payment term that makes the house you
purchase the collateral for the loan. So if you can't pay off the loan, the bank
can take possession of your house and sell it to make its money back. When you first apply for a mortgage, there will be many steps before
the money gets to your hands. The creditors will do a thorough credit
check to ensure your credit history isn't abysmal. And from there, they'll begin
to shape the terms of the loan. A very important part of this
process is the appraisal. In this step, a professional appraiser will estimate the
value of the house you want to mortgage. And in fact, this appraisal is an
important part of the system of checks and balances. If you've paid a price way above
the appraised value of the property, you probably made a bad deal, and
the lender doesn't want any part of that. In fact, a lot of lenders got into trouble
when this system of checks and balances failed in the months leading up to the
bursting of the housing bubble in 2007. The system failed because
the appraisers themselves. Weren't doing their due diligence. They were just rubber stamping
properties at the selling price. When the bubble burst and
prices dropped, lenders could only sell the foreclosed houses for a loss,
and ended up suffering for it. Since that market turmoil, lenders have
been very careful about their risk. Appraisers have mostly cleaned up their
acts, and you are far more likely to get an appraisal that underestimates the value
than one that overestimates the value. Okay, back to our main story. After the property's value has been
determined by the appraiser and the lender evaluates your credit history,
if it all looks good, you will have to decide between
two possible mortgage options. On one hand, you can choose a fixed-rate
mortgage meaning that the interest rate on your loan will stay the same
throughout the period. Thus, if you get into the loan
while mortgage rates are low then you time the economy well and can now reap the benefits of a great
interest rate for the period of the loan. Meanwhile the lender bears all the risks
that interest rates may rise above your fixed rate and
you get to sleep well at night. In contrast, the bank can offer you an
adjustable or variable rate mortgage that sometimes starts off with a lower
teaser rate to draw you in. But here's a big note of caution. An adjustable rate mortgage is
much more of a gambler's loan. While the adjustable rate is tied to
the prevailing interest rate at the time, if the interest rates rise over time,
so too will your mortgage payments. And if interest rates go sky high and
you can't pay your mortgage, note that interest rate have gone
as high as 20% or more in the past, you may wind up in foreclosure with
no home, bad credit, and the loss of all your original down payment and
any more equity you may have in the home. You can see then why lenders like to
entice you into adjustable rate mortgages. They basically shift all the risk of
rising rates right onto your shoulders, and you may not sleep as well at night. Now here's another big caution flag, because adjustable-rate mortgages tend to
have initially slightly lower rates than fixed mortgages, precisely because
lenders are assuming a lot less risk. A lot of folks are tempted by
adjustable rate mortgages. My advice however is that,
if you plan to be in the home for any extended period as opposed
to flipping it quickly, you are almost always better
off with a fixed-rate mortgage. The reason? You can always refinance a fixed-rate
mortgage to take advantage of falling interest rates, and thereby keep
the risk on the lenders rather than you. Just what do I mean by
refinancing your mortgage? Here's how it works. With a refi, as they say in the biz, you
basically trade in your old mortgage for a new one with a lower interest rate,
maybe even better terms. And one of the reasons I'm highlighting
this is that when you get your original mortgage you should be very,
very sure there is no pre-payment penalty that would make
the cost of a refi prohibitive. In fact, since mortgages involve
relatively large sums of money, even small drops in mortgage rates,
as little as half of a percentage point, can save you a nice chunk of
change on your monthly payments. So do keep an active eye on interest
rates as a homeowner and take control of your financial destiny by using
refinancing when the situation warrants. Now, here's one last wrinkle
in the mortgage game. Mortgage Insurance. If you want to buy a home and wants to put less than a certain amount
down, currently 20% in the United States, the lender will require you to
purchase mortgage insurance. And as part of your monthly payments, you'll be required to pay
the premiums on that insurance. Of course the advantage of
mortgage insurance is that it allows you to buy a home
with a smaller down payment. That might get you into your
first new home a lot quicker. However, as I warned you
in an earlier lesson, if you screw up your credit score
through bad behavior, or maybe bad luck. You won't be able to qualify for
mortgage insurance. You will be shut out of
the home buying market, not least until you
accumulate more capital. That's just another reason to keep your
web of personal finance cozy and secure. Now on to part three when you're ready,
and we'll take a look at some of
the other types of loans. [MUSIC]