The moment you start charging people for
some product or service, you've started a business. You might be mowing the neighbor's lawn or
maybe picking up stuff at yard sales and listing it on eBay. >> On the other hand,
you might have bigger ambitions and be launching your own app on
the Apple App Store or Google Marketplace. >> Regardless of your choice,
you have already become an entrepreneur. And that has some
interesting implications for your personal financial planning and
taxes. So, here's your first key tip. >> If you're going to
be a business person, you will need to establish relationships
with professionals you can trust. At a minimum, you will need a banker,
an insurance agent, an accountant, and a lawyer. But don't just choose
the one down the street. Or the first one you find when
you Google slick lawyer dude. Instead, I recommend you
find a business mentor. Preferably an older person
who knows the ropes and has some connections in your field or
your community. Who can introduce you to the network. You might even consider going to
the local chamber of commerce and introducing yourself. Regardless, always be alert to
incompetence and the scam artists. Now, as to why you need the help
of these professionals. Let's work our way to some of the hurdles
you're gonna have to jump over and start with the whole issue of liabilities. When you start any business activity,
there's always the possibility that what you're doing or how you do it will either
offend someone or fail to satisfy them. Justifiably or not, they may seek
legal recourse, you could be sued. When I say you, I mean you. And this kind of liability can impact
your personal finances in a huge way. As to how to assess your liability, it's
a truism that all businesses can generate some liability, but it's the nature of your business that ultimately defines
how much actual risk is involved. On one hand,
if you launch a scrapbooking business, your biggest fear might be that one of
your clients will suffer a paper cut. Not a lot of risk there. On the other hand, if you start
up a document delivery service, you could actually injure
someone in a car accident rushing somewhere to
deliver that key document. Just because there's more risk
doesn't mean you shouldn't pursue the delivery business. It just means you must be aware of
the liability you're creating and consider ways you can reduce it and
to limit your personal exposure. That's where both your accountant and
your lawyer can be useful. Of course, the obvious way to reduce
your risk in the delivery business is to drive carefully. And it's always a good idea for any
business owner to establish a culture of safety and to institute procedures
that will reduce accidents. However, driving the speed limit and stopping at every red light will
not prevent every accident. And even if the other
person causes the crash, a court could still easily find you
at least partially responsible. Now here's another caution flag. You could also be liable
if your product or service doesn't live up to
the customer's expectations. Moreover that liability could
exceed the cost of the good or service you're actually providing. Just imagine you're delivering
an important cashier's check for a big big deal, and
you get caught in traffic. Unfortunately that delay means you don't
get the check to where it needs to be on time, and your client's important
business deal blows up. The next thing you know, the person
who hired you is coming after you for the million bucks she lost, not just the
$20 bucks she paid you for your service. Now there are several things you can do to
make sure you don't spend the rest of your life paying for
the consequences of one bad day. One is choosing the right legal form for
your business, which we'll be discussing shortly. Another good idea is to make
sure you're properly insured. I know Alex has already
discussed insurance, but it's important that you talk to your
insurance agent about your planned business activity and
get coverage before you engage in it. As my final key tip for this part of
the lesson, please make sure you have in place the appropriate written
agreements with your clients and your vendors to make sure your liability
is limited to what you expect it to be. >> Roger that, Professor Autry. So, what are we going to tackle
in part two of the lesson? >> Here's a clue, and it's a famous quote
from conservative president Ronald Reagan. I've always felt that the nine most
terrifying words in the English language are, I'm from the government and
I'm here to help. >> So we'll be talking about regulations
and taxes for a small business then? >> Exactly. [MUSIC]