As a small business owner, you will
find that your business is inexorably intertwined with your personal finances. >> Sometimes that's good,
but often, it's a nuisance. >> In fact, as you get along in the world, you will notice that all sorts of
forms you get from the government or from companies you do business with,
will ask about your employment. >> But now hear it is. If you go to rent an apartment or
get an auto loan, the moment you check off self-employed, you'll find that you've opened up
a Pandora's box of further paperwork. >> These people, your creditors,
want to be sure they're going to be paid. And if you list your job as tenured
professor at the University of California, they're pretty sure you're gonna get
your paycheck on a regular basis and will be working next year. On the other hand, if you list
yourself as owner, Sarah's Cupcakes, they may be thinking, can she possibly
make enough money to buy this car? And the sad news is, as a small business owner you are simply
less likely to get personal credit. And here's a cruel catch 22. On the one hand, folks you wanna borrow
money from will want you to have a plethora of financial statements
to show your business is stable and highly profitable. On the other hand, as a small business
owner, you will usually strive to keep your on-book profits as low as possible
in order to reduce your taxes. Done legitimately, this is,
of course, legal and ethical. However, the profits you actually
show may not be impressive enough for you to qualify for a loan or credit. And here's another key tip when
it comes to getting credit. Be sure to only choose those business
partners who share your dedication to building up a strong credit history and
paying their income taxes. So sit down with your potential partners
before you go into business and talk personal finance. In fact,
make them watch this video series. >> Time out here Professor Audrey. I have to admit that you've almost scared
me out of launching my own business. >> Not to worry Alex it's only
because I've saved the best for last. As we finish I'm gonna show you
there a lot of really creative and rewarding things that an entrepreneur can
legally do to use a business to make his or her personal financial
situation more rewarding. >> So, what exactly do you have in mind? >> Well, suppose you're running that
delivery business I talked about earlier and it requires the business to own a car. >> Now if you were a corporate bean
counter in charge of vehicle acquisition for the very big delivery service of
America, you'd probably buy a fleet of whatever abysmal, generic little white
boxes some car company was trying to dump because nobody wanted to be seen debt and
the things. But wait, you've got to drive
this thing and you are in charge. And so here's the punch line. Within reason, nobody can tell you
what to buy for your company and write off on your taxes. So maybe you feel that Alex's Speedy
Documents should be delivered in a truck or an SUV with towing capacity for a boat. Or maybe a sporty little convertible
emblazoned with your company's logo would add a nice marketing
twist to the business. Of course, neither is the most practical
choice for delivering documents. But now, hear this,
it is your choice and within reason, the tax authorities won't question it. Now here's another possible benefit. It has to do with where you are actually
going to house your business. In fact, many entrepreneurs
start right in their homes. And in today's world of online commerce,
a traditional brick and mortar location is less and
less necessary. >> For example, I myself have run a $2
million a year computer business with a dozen workers, and no offices at all. And here's the key tip. When you dedicate space in
your office to business, not only do you get to make
deals in your pajamas. You also get some nice tax
deductions on the part of the home in which you do business. And guess what? Those tax savings may help
you to afford a bigger and nicer home than you otherwise could. Score another one for
being an entrepreneur. And on that note, being an entrepreneur
may put you in a better position to retire way down the road as well. That's because in the United States,
there are all sorts of tax savings accounts that self-employed
folks can benefit from. Lastly, you've surely heard the adage,
there's no such thing as a free lunch. It's a popular economic truism, and
Nobel laureate, Milton Friedman, even used it for the title of a book. However, while you can't get a free lunch,
let me tell you that you can surely get a tax deductible one if you
are a small business owner, that is. Here the occasional working
lunch with staff, customers, vendors, or
your account is a perfectly valid expense, particularly if you don't have
office space in which to meet. And within reason, you get to choose
a meal, at least partially subsidized by the quite legitimate tax write off for
entertainment expenses. I'll have the steak special,
rather than the burger please. In the same vane,
there are also travel expense write offs. So if your in the video game business, your trip to E3 in Vegas,
just got about 40% cheaper. >> Of course with all the things I've
suggested here, the rules can be complex. So let your savvy accountant keep you
within the lines because as Alex explain in an earlier lesson,
tax crime never pays. >> And that's a wrap. S