You've probably seen the bumper sticker
around that says, stuff happens. When it happens,
you can take a pretty big financial hit. If you haven't prepared for that hit,
it could have pretty dire consequences. You could lose your house or your car or maybe even your life if you can't
afford the very best medical care. Of course, it's possible to
self-insure against disaster, just by saving up a bunch of money. We encourage you to have
an emergency savings reserve. But that said, usually pays to be insured. As for the big idea behind
the concept of insurance, here it is. Risk Pooling. What do I mean by that? Well, as the poet John Donne, once said, no person is an island,
but rather part of a broader me. To put this in context, you're one of a
group of people that faces various risks. But for each person in the group,
there is a relatively small probability that an accident or
bad event will occur in any given year. Of course, if you are the actual
one in the group that is unlucky, the financial consequences
can be devastating. So the idea of insurance, is to put
you in with the rest of the group, so that each of you can chip in
a relatively small amount of money in case one of you needs
a big accident payoff. That's called pooling the risk, and it is a concept that cuts across
virtually every kind of insurance. The other important part of the risk
pooling concept to know about is that you are rarely thrown in with
the entire population to form a risk pool. Instead, insurance underwriters will group
you by risk, and charge rates accordingly. For example, as a young driver
in a young driver risk pool, you are going to pay higher car
insurance rates than normal. That's because statistics show that young
drivers are more likely to get into accidents, particularly
young male drivers. But don't worry. I'm going to show you how you can
get your insurance costs down, even if you are stuck
in a high risk group. Okay.
With that as our big picture background, let's dig into some details
as we ask ourselves this. Just what can be insured? Well, just about everything,
cars, homes, businesses, equipment, even your own
life can be insured. But it doesn't stop there. There are specialty insurers out there
like the famous Lloyd's of London, that can underwrite insurance policies for
nearly anything you can imagine. If you can afford it. Some famous examples include
Keith Richard's fingers, Bob Dylan's vocal cords, and American football player
Troy Polamalu's signature hairdo. While there are lots of different
kinds of insurance policies out there, the language of the business is universal. So, let's start with
the most basic of terms. The insurance premium. Here's Investopedia's
typically bone-dry definition. The specified amount of payment
required periodically by an insurer to provide coverage under a given insurance
plan for a defined period of time. Basically, that means you,
the insured person, pay the premium, your small known loss, in exchange for
the insurance company's promise to pay or indemnify you in case
of a much larger loss. And by the way, one of the most important jobs in the
insurance industry is that of the actuary. You may want to look into
that as a career option if you have a statistical perspective and
enjoy the process of prediction. As for what actuaries actually do, they
make estimates of the ultimate outcomes of insurable events using both past
statistics and forward-looking models. In this task, they work hand in
hand with insurance underwriters. Together, their job is to evaluate
the risks of insuring folks like you, or an asset you might own. This allows them to set their premiums
to ensure their profitability. Of course,
your job is to get the best deal you can. Now, hear this key tip. If you know what insurance companies
are looking for before you seek coverage, you will be a better consumer,
thereby avoid any bad deals. [MUSIC]