Have you bought your first car yet? Or maybe your parents bought you one for
your high school graduation. Lucky you. At any rate, as soon as you
start driving your own vehicle, you are likely going to need insurance. But this isn't a one-size-fits-all
thing by any means. There's a big menu of
coverages to choose from, and we need to work our way
through them to get you ready. Let's start with simple
liability coverage. Here's why this is the absolute minimum
vehicle insurance coverage you should get. When you cause an accident,
you can be held accountable for the resulting injuries or property damage. The costs can be well outside your budget. But if you are unable to pay, you will risk losing your assets as
a result of a lawsuit against you. To protect yourself, all you need to
do is buy liability insurance for both property damage and personal injury. In fact, in most states in America, liability coverage is mandatory to
legally own and operate a vehicle. And the only discretionary
part of the decision is how much coverage above
the minimum required you want to buy. Of course, beyond such liability coverage, you can also buy collision insurance
as well as comprehensive coverage for things like fire, theft, vandalism and
even emergency road coverage. On this last point,
the decision to buy theft coverage for example, can be an interesting one. If you have an old to beater car that
is fully paid for, you may not want to incur the cost of theft insurance and
simply bear the risk yourself. On the other hand, if you have a brand
new car with a big auto loan or a brand of car like a Honda Civic or
a Toyota Camry that are favorite targets of thieves,
theft insurance may by prudent. And may even be required
by the terms of your loan. In considering vehicle insurance, one of the most important choices is
the amount of your so called deductible. This is the dollar amount that
you must cover whenever you make an insurance claim. For example, suppose a ladder in
your garage drops on your car and you accidentally dent your cars fender. Let's further suppose,
the cost of the repair will be $800 but you have a deductible specified in
your insurance policy of $1000. In this case, you are simply out of luck. The full cost of the repair will
come out of your own pocket. As to why you are dumb enough to
choose such a high deductible, it may actually have been
a pretty smart choice, why? Because everything else being equal,
when you choose a higher deductible on an insurance policy,
you will get a lower rate. That's because you've assumed
a bit more of the risk. In this particular example,
it didn't work out, but over time that high deductible
might still save you money. The broader point is, that choosing your
deductible is one of the most important choices you make in choosing
your insurance policy. For cars, homes, and just about
everything else you will insure. But be sure to shop around and
compare rates on all the key parameters. Next, I want to talk about
how insurance rates and premiums are actually determined. By knowing what factors go
into calculating your premium, this can help you reduce your rates. The biggest factor in determining your car
insurance premium is your driving history, much like credit scores,
when you are young and just starting out,
you have no history and are charged more. Likewise, if you have been driving for
a while, and have a record filled with speeding tickets and accidents,
you are likely to have very steep rates. So easing up on the gas pedal
will not only save you fuel and ticket costs, it will also potentially
save you some money in insurance. The next biggest factor is
based on the car you drive. The more expensive your car is,
the higher year rates are going to be. A 2010 Ford Fiesta is going to be cheaper
too insure than a brand new Lexus. More subtly, however, there's also the perceived risks
associated with a particular brand of car. Going back to one of our
original examples in lesson one, you may remember that the profligate
grasshopper, Juan, drove a fast and fancy Porsche, which statistics show
is more likely to get in an accident. While the stable ant, Juanita,
opted for a low-key Camry. On this decision alone, Juanita saved
a lot more money relative to Juan, because the insurance premium on a fast
sports car would likely be double or more than that of a lowly sedan. Now beyond the value and
risk of the car being insured and your driving record, the insurance
companies also take a very good look at other aspects of your personal profile. Here, the four biggest factors are gender,
age, marital status, and employment. For example, as another statistical truism,
men are more accident prone than women. Interestingly enough, statistics also show that married people
are safer drivers as a group than singles. Although, I am certainly not
encouraging you to tie the knot any time soon just to lower
your auto insurance rates. I will however offer this key tip. At least some insurance companies will
give you a discount for good grades, because statistically, that correlates
with safer driving behavior. Apparently, geeks do rule. Given that we students are already charged
some of the highest premiums around, you may want to consider
this financial incentive the next time you want to blow off
your homework or an important class. Hey, Ferris Bueller probably
had higher car insurance rates. Now, the last type of insurance I
want to talk about before ending part two of this lesson, is something you as
a student may find especially helpful. This is renter's insurance. While you certainly won't need to
insure your rental unit itself, that's the landlord's job,
you might have enough computers, stereo equipment and various other
things that have significant value. If you possessions are stolen during
a break-in or damaged by a fire or severe weather, a renter's insurance
policy allows you to recover their value. By the way,
with some renter's insurance policies, you can now even insure yourself
against identity theft. Maybe not a bad idea in these wild
times on the virtual frontier. [MUSIC]