To finish off this lesson,
let's go the big kahuna, health insurance. In fact, this type of insurance
varies a lot by country. For example, if you live in Canada or
Great Britain. You don't really have to worry
about insurance coverage. That's because both countries have
nationalized their health system. And offer universal health
care to all their citizens. Of course, in these countries, you have a lot less choice when it
comes to what doctors you can see. What hospital you might go to, and
how long you might have to wait for surgery if you need it. Yep, it's a big debate. Nationalized medicine versus
private healthcare providers. But there's one big problem each of these
systems face, exploding healthcare costs. One reason for rising costs is that
people are simply living longer. And older people use a disproportionate
amount of healthcare. The other reason is,
new healthcare technologies and prescription drugs both tend
to be really expensive. As a young person, you need to know this because it will
directly affect you over your lifetime. If you are in a nationalized
healthcare system, you'll be paying higher taxes to pay for
that system. If you are in a private
healthcare provider system. It's likely your insurance premiums
are going to be steadily climbing. This is all the more reason you need
to shop carefully for health insurance. As with auto insurance, your healthcare
plan will specify a deductible. Which for healthcare is the amount you
will have to pay our of your own pocket each year. Before you are eligible to
begin receiving reimbursements. And as with auto insurance,
the higher the deductible you choose, the lower your rates will be. Now here's two new insurance concepts
to help you shop for healthcare. The so called co-pay versus co-insurance. In fact, both are forms of cost
sharing with your insurer. On one hand,
a co-pay specifies a fixed amount for a particular type of health care service. For example, your plan may specify 40
bucks as a co-pay to see a doctor. And $20 to fill a prescription. Of course one advantage of
a co-pay is that there's no surprise about how much
a service will cost you. In contrast, co-insurance is based on a percentage of the cost of
the actual healthcare service. For example, 20% co-insurance for hospitalization means you
pay 20% of the costs. And your health insurer
pays the other 80%. In other words,
there's no cap as with a co-pay. Risky for you, less so for the insurer. So be sure to look carefully
at your co-pay and co-insurance options when shopping a plan. Because the higher the co-pay and
co-insurance you chose in your plan. The lower the insurance premium
you will have to fork over. The reason,
is that you are bearing more risk. Essentially betting that you probably
won't need much health care that year. Now here's another useful concept
to understand when choosing a plan, you're covered benefits. For example, plans regularly cover such
services as emergency room visits and hospitalization. But some may not cover things like
chiropractic services or elective surgery. Be sure you know what is and isn't covered
before you sign on the dotted line. In this same vein, you'll want to look very carefully at
what prescription drugs are covered. For example, some plans try to force you to buy
generics rather than the branded drug. However, that can be an issue. Since there is considerable
debate about whether generics reach the same level of quality. In fact, many generics aren't
necessarily duplicated drugs. But rather more like
approximations of the original. As the final key decision parameter,
there is the out-of-pocket maximum. This is the most you will have
to pay during a policy period. Typically a year before your plan starts
to pay 100% of the allowed amount. Again, the higher
the out-of-pocket maximum, the lower your insurance premium will be. Like the co-pay and deductible, there's a trade-off between
the risk you bear and the rates you pay. The broader point here is that health
care is one of the most important forms of insurance you will buy. And it's as you age,
it will grow in importance. Just like bankers and lenders health
insurers are not necessarily your friends. It's more like they're out
to make a buck off you. So shop well, so you can stay well, and never get
surprised if you get sick or injured. To find out you are not fully covered for
what might ail you [MUSIC]