Each year from the ivy covered
halls of Harvard and Wharton. And the sun drenched campuses
of Stanford and USC. To the intellectual vineyards of France's
ENSEA, the fabled London School of Business, and the teaming campus of Hong
Kong University of Science and Technology. More 100,000 students
graduate from full or part time regular and
executive MBA programs. That's three times the number of law
degrees, more than four times the number of engineering degrees, and more than
seven times the number of medical degrees. Now, I know that a business degree
may not be in your future at all. You may aspire to be a scientist,
an artist, or even a lawyer,
despite the surplus of lawyer jokes. But whatever is in your future,
there are some important lessons that you can learn from the things
that are taught in business schools. One of the first things is this. At any given business school you will
of course learn the key concepts, tools, and skills that
are the foundation of the MBA degree. Really, the more important thing
to gain from business school for many students, is the invaluable
set of networks that you can develop as part of your MBA experience. But only if you are open
during that experience and aware of just how important
those networks are. So before we tackle the idea
of what's in an MBA toolbox, I would like you to think about
your own undergraduate experience. Are you the kind of student that
spends all your time studying and little time interacting with your
classmates and other students? That may well be a good strategy if
your goal is to get great grades and get into graduate school. However, do keep in mind that all those
other students that you are sharing your experience with are fellow
travelers in the world. And they might be helpful to
you some time in the future. So that's the first key tip, don't forget to cultivate your
networks when you're a student because they can be as valuable as
anything you might learn in the classroom. Okay, with that bit of pontificating,
let's start our journey into what the best MBA's know with an overview
of the MBA curriculum. Let's start with one of the most important
MBA tools, the conceptual framework. Here, conceptually,
we can think about the MBA degree as being divided into five main
interrelated and interlocking parts. The first part is the MBA toolbox. This is the world of
quantitative analysis and it includes tools like statistics,
decision analysis, and modeling. This is an area that drills right
down to that quotation that I shared with you earlier. Namely that you can't manage
what you can't measure. Some of the big questions of
managerial analysis include things like how to evaluate risk and
how to model decision making. Of course,
the biggest question of all may be, how you should interpret
data in decision making. The big personal takeaway here is,
don't rely just on your gut and intuition to make your decisions. Know how to use the available
data to help yourself. As for the second part of the MBA
curriculum, this is the functional MBA. Basically, when you look at
corporations and businesses, they are typically divided into functional
areas like operations management, marketing, financial and
cost accounting and corporate finance. In fact, this is the bread and
butter of the traditional MBA curriculum. By studying these topics, you'll learn
how to find and manage the funds for your company's capital facilities and
activities. You will also learn how to produce,
distribute, market and sell your products and services. As I talk about each of these areas in
parts two and three of this lesson, this should be a good time to see if any
of these areas have any appeal to you. It's never to soon to start
thinking about your career path. Do you like the order, logic,
and discipline of accounting? Are you an extrovert who loves
selling ideas and products? Or are you a puzzle master
who loves designing intricate systems to make things work? As for
the third part of the MBA core curriculum, it is what I call
the Strategic & Tactical MBA. Basically you have two main courses here,
strategy and macroeconomics. Strategy is a cool course
that teaches you both how and why to make the big decisions
every corporation faces. From market entry and market
positioning to product diversification, and mergers and acquisitions. While it might seem strange to put
macroeconomics in the group with strategy, the two actually work very well together. This is because macroeconomics
is all about the when or the timing of many strategic decisions. From product production and inventory levels,
to the tone of the marketing messages. Again, from a career point of view, does
it float your boat to think strategically? Even if it doesn't, just remember
there's lots of folks out there you will compete with in the job market,
and it may be a good idea to
cultivate a strategic perspective. Now, the fourth part of the MBA curriculum
is The Organizational & Leadership MBA. This is the realm of so
called soft skills, as opposed to the hard skills of data
crunching and supply chain management. In studying a topic like organizational
behavior leadership, you will learn just why and how managing a successful
business is very much a team sport. You will also see why the best
strategies that a company may pursue, will ultimately crash and burn if
the company has severe people issues. This may be a good time to reflect
about your own soft skills. Are you comfortable talking to small or
large groups? Do you consider yourself a leader or
a follower? Are you willing to try to overcome any
shyness in reaching out to people? If you are the leader,
do you lead by example? These are all important
questions to consider, and you don't have to wait to go to business
school to start thinking about them. As for the fifth and
final part of the MBA curriculum, it's the political and regulatory MBA. And the courses in this box
have names like, government and business, ethics and
responsibility, or business law. And, each in their own way, have to do
with effectively managing an enterprise within the broader regulatory environment
in which all commerce takes place. The big take away here, is that knowing
how to jump through regulatory hoops or navigate a government bureaucracy,
can be every bit as important as properly pricing a product or having
the right amount of inventory on hand. So even if you hate big government,
at least learn to know thy enemy. It's never too soon to start thinking
about the ethical dimensions of what you do in both your personal and
professional life. As the saying goes, a persons'
character determines his or her fate. Okay, that's our conceptual framework
to think about what the best MBAs know. In part two of this lesson,
which should be a lot of fun I might add, I'm going to show you how each of these
five conceptual areas might come into play if you follow the tips and wisdom of
Professor from the last lesson and decide to start your own business. So when you're ready,
let's move on to Part 2. [MUSIC]