Since both credit and
debit cards each have their pros and cons, which is the best for us to use? Or maybe it might make sense for us to
have both types of cards, use each for specific and different purposes? So let's think about that now. Tonight we're seeing how each one
might fit into an overall smart and efficient financial plan. With a debit card, you can only spend
the money you already have in the bank. A big advantage is you don't have to
deal with the hassle of actual cash. And the debit cards excel at
small day-to-day transactions, like gas, groceries or lunch. With a debit card, your statements show you in real time
how much money you have left to spend. That makes it easy to budget out money for
each week or between your pay checks. So as long as your expenditures
are relatively small and your in flow of money into
the account can keep up. The debit card is the stronger
of the two tools for these smaller recurring expenses. But what happens when for example,
your hot water heater breaks and you need to call a plumber to fix it. Paying a couple of hundred bucks
straight out of your account for this could either drain your savings
account, or set your budget for food and gas way back until your next paycheck. Almost to the point of having to subsist
entirely off of ramen again, but you are a savvy person and you have a credit
card for just this type of situation. With a credit card,
you can pay that large unexpected bill and have time to collect more money from work. Or your other accounts to pay
the bill at the end of the month without wrecking your budget. And even if you can't pay the full
amount right away that month, you can break the payment up
into more manageable sizes. And here's a really important point. If you pay off your entire credit
card debt every month on time, you won't be charged any interest at all. But if you do get into a situation where
you have a large expense you have to incur and you charge it to your credit card. Even if you don't have funds to
cover it at the end of the month, you must at least pay
the minimum payment due. In such a case you'll pay interest
on the remaining balance. But if you miss a minimum balance payment,
you'll not only be charged a late fee. The credit card company can also increase
the APR or interest rate it charges you, often to obscene levels. Let me be really honest with you here. The credit card companies
are not your friends. Sure they send you a bunch of happy
sounding applications in the mail all the time hoping to get your business. But if you get behind on your credit card,
they really don't care. In fact, they make a lot more money on you
because they can charge people with little credit history like us. High interest rates, like 20% or
more, even when the interest rate and the general economy is well below 5%. So don't get hooked on credit card debt. It will not only send you to the
poorhouse, it will also kill your credit score, as I will explain more in
the lecture about credit history. Now let me get back to some of
the virtues of credit cards, because they are certainly not all bad. Here, one thing credit
cards are really handy for is making large planned purchases. For example, you might not have enough
money sitting around to splurge on, say a new energy efficient refrigerator. However, with a credit card you
can still make the purchase and just spread the payments
out over a few months. You might end up paying interest, but you might come out ahead with
the energy savings from the new fridge. By the way,
one final downside of a credit card is that cost are harder to keep
track of than with a debit card. This is because,
unless you wanna go online and check, your statements will typically
be available only once a month. In other words, you don't get that
instant tally of your remaining funds that makes a debit card so
easy to manage. Thus for a credit card,
it can be tempting to overspend and then get hit with a huge
bill that is hard to pay. Luckily, there are tools
out there like Mint. That help keep track of multiple
accounts and cards to track balances, spending habits and other statistics
to help manage our money well. Using tools like this, you can find
a plan that helps leverage the pros and cons of both debit and credit cards. Since everyone has
different spending habits, a different balance will work
differently for everyone. But it's important to have both debit and credit cards around, as they give you
more options to manage your money. And unlike with a debit card,
a credit card properly managed can start you down the road to building
a good credit history. This will certainly pay dividends down
the line in the form of lower interest rates in applying for car loans,
business loans and mortgages. [MUSIC]