So we've gone over how credit and
debit cards differ. And how each one can have an effective
role in our financial plan. But how do we actually go about
getting these cards in our pocket? Debit cards are pretty simple to get. Banks typically will give you one when you
open up a checking or savings account. If you have an account with a bank,
but no card. A quick visit to the nearest branch
should correct that in short order. For credit cards, there are more options. Since a credit card isn't
tied to a specific account, you don't have to go through a bank. In fact companies like airlines,
home improvement stores, and department stores offer credit cards too. So how do we choose where to get a card? First we have to distinguish between
the myriad of credit card types. For starters, we have the standard
unsecured credit card. That is most often taken out with a bank. By unsecured, I mean that obtaining a card
doesn't involve any type of collateral. However, there are secured
cards out there. That demand collateral of someone
typically with a poor credit history. Where collateral means putting up
some type of asset like a car, boat, jewelry, or a cash deposit. If you fail to pay off the credit card,
you would lose your collateral. Ouch. There are also reward cards that
give points for each dollar spent. And enable you to redeem those points for
certain rewards or incentives. These cards often require
a good credit history. But can net you cash back, travel and hotel rewards, gas savings,
retail rewards. For both online and brick and mortar locations, and any variety
of things the company might offer. But be careful these cards often
come with additional fees. So in order to get the most
out of the rewards, it is important to pay
balances off quickly. Otherwise you'll come out with a net
loss over a standard credit card. Still another genre of credit card
is called a balance transfer card. That enables the user to consolidate
the balance of multiple cards onto one. Often with a lower interest rate. Beware though,
having multiple credit cards and juggling the balances like
this can sometimes backfire. And will negatively affect
your credit history as we'll talk more about in
the lecture on credit history. There are also specialty cards for business which offer some of
the perks of normal cards. With additional tools and
features for business owners. Like expense reports, additional cards for
employees, and higher credit limits. The additional features of a business
card vary between the companies that offer them. But they are useful tools for
entrepreneurs and executives alike. A last major sub type of credit card is
meant particularly for students like us. They are scaled back in terms of
what perks and features they offer. But are good starting points for
students with little or no established credit history. And here's a big plus, these student
cards can be a strong tool for building a good credit
history while in school. So that you can get a full
service card with a good rate and desirable perks after graduation. For a first credit card it might be smart
to see what options your bank might offer. Often if you already have an account
in good standing with the bank they'll give you a better rate. After shopping around a bit,
we find a card we're interested in and start to fill in the application. The applications are pretty
straightforward for the most part. But so you know what to expect and what information to have handy,
here's a sample application. At the top, companies will often ask you
to choose which card you are applying for. Sometimes they'll provide
more info on each card. But you should have your research
completed before you make a final choice. Read all the terms and
stipulations on the contract. This isn't some software agreement that
you can skip over with little consequence. There are important terms and conditions. That affect your money and
how the card works. Skipping over these can be a huge
mistake if you miss an important part of the contract. Second, the application will ask for your
contact information, your name, address. Contact info and other biological
information, your citizenship status. And perhaps for info on a relative or
personal reference. Next they will ask about your employment
history and financial standing. These questions are pretty
straight forward. And give the bank information on how
much money you typically make and spend. For students applications, they might ask you about,
academic history, graduation date. As well as other jobs you may have had. If you're applying for
a car with certain features, often you will need to fill out
additional information too. Here, there is info about a balance
transfer program that would help consolidate debt. Near the end, companies will often ask if
you need an additional card for a spouse, child or partner. The card will be linked to your account,
but would have their name on the front. Plus the company will ask about
the best way to send you a bill. These days, companies are trying to
cut costs by going paperless and sending bills online. So they might include a small fee if you
want a paper bill sent to you every month. The final section will usually
be a legal declaration stating that the information
you filled in is true. And that you authorize the company
to collect info about you for a credit history. Read the statement carefully as there
sometimes be additional stipulations you might not want. Like an application or processing fee. That's it for this lesson. Here's some of the key points we covered. One. It's good financial planning to have both,
a credit and debit card. Two. Debit cards are great for
small, daily expenditures. But with a debit card you can't
spend more than you have, and in an emergency you may need to do that. Three. Credit cards are great for those larger
purchases, planned or in emergencies. Because they help you spread the costs
out over several months until you can pay the amount off. Four. But just remember to always pay
your minimum credit card balance. Or risk both high interest rates and
bad credit scores. [MUSIC]