Hi, I'm Peter Navarro and
I'll be your professor for this course on managing your time,
money and career. I've been a professor at UC Irvine
business school here in Sunny California, for over 25 years, and I'm delighted
to be able to share with you some insights about personal finance and
management. Usually reserve for my MBA students. >> And I'm Alex LeBon. I'm an undergraduate student majoring
in physics that experienced firsthand most of the issues and problems we're
going to be talking about in this course. You will be seeing and hearing me
throughout the video lessons, and I will be helping explain and
translate the business and economics concepts from Professor Navarro
to your everyday lives as a student. >> Here then is the deal. This course is designed to
be both practical and fun. And it should be a very
low stress experience. >> If you simply view the online lectures
a couple of times, take the quizzes, You should get a very high rate of
return on this educational investment. >> As for the topics you will be studying,
they range from budgeting, borrowing and credit score management to saving and investing, insurance, taxes and
even entrepreneurship. >> And one note about the content. In most of your classes, the lessons will
be structured in a clear progression where each lesson builds on the next as the
material becomes more and more difficult. But that's not what we will be doing here. >> That's right, Alex. Each of the lessons in this class more or
less stand on their own. But they are also highly related to
at least some of the other lessons, as if in a web. >> For example, in one lesson we'll teach the concept
of having a plan for your money. But in other lessons we will
show you related concepts like investment strategies and credit. >> So keep that in mind while you're
going through the lessons, and don't be afraid to go back to
lessons to keep your knowledge fresh when we reference a particular
subject outside of it's lesson. >> And here's my first key tip for you. One of the most powerful
things about a Coursera course is the community discussion forums. >> That's right, be sure to post
your questions, personal insights or additional related resources. While Alex and
I cannot answer all of your questions, the vast community of learners in
the course can help fill that gap. And you will benefit greatly
from the collective insights of your fellow students. >> So now, let's get ready for
what should be a very interesting ride. Jump right into the first lesson,
and enjoy the course. [BLANK AUDIO]